PROBLEMS file v1.29
                              Having Problems?
                              ----------------

These are a few common problems that you might like to check.
They are roughly split into Installation problems, Running problems,
NT problems and PDA Browser problems.  Please check all of these before
you contact me with your problems, as you may well find the solution here!

Win2k/ME/XP users - all of the NT problems/solutions below apply to you as well.

Mac users - I haven't tested this under MacOS, but it should work.  Please let
me know of any issues (management-speak for 'bugs' :-) under MacOS.

These problems are not split into groups very well, so you should read
all of them and make sure that none of them match your problem before trying
the mailing list or my email address.

If you have a problem NOT listed here, then try the mailing list for support,
or mail me. If you have problems and then overcome them, please let me know
so I can add the information here and help future users of this system.
The mailing list is hosted on
http://www.steveshipway.org/mailman/listinfo/support_steveshipway.org

You might want to try the inbuilt configuration checker - call routers2.cgi
with the paramter 'page=verify', eg:
	http://myserver.mycompany.com/cgi-bin/routers2.cgi?page=verify
or (windows servers)
	http://myserver.mycompany.com/cgi-bin/routers2.pl?page=verify
This will help to identify some of the more common setup config problems.

If your problem is more of a 'how do I?' question, check the HOWTO file,
there are more instructions in there.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Q. It doesn't run at all!

A. Do you have Perl installed?  If you are running UNIX, is Perl in 
   /usr/local/bin/perl ?  If not, change the first line of the script to 
   point to the correct location.  Do you have RRDTool installed?
   If you are using NT, have you correctly configured the O/S and Web server
   for your Perl installation?

Q. I just get a 'Server Error' page.

A. If using Apache, make sure you have the correct #!perl.exe path at the 
   beginning of the script.  If using IIS, you may need to rename the script
   to routers.pl and associate .pl with the perl.exe application.
   Check your perl version and RRDTool version.  Make sure that the RRDs.pm
   library has been installed in your perl library directory.
   See later entries in this file as well.
   Look at the error log file that your web server produces.

Q. I get an error 'Cannot find RRDs.pm'

A. This means that the RRDTool libraries cannot be found.  Have you installed
   them yet?  Did you install them into the site-perl directory?  Usually
   this is done with the 'make site-perl-install' or similar.  You could also
   use the LibAdd: directive in the MRTG .cfg files.
   Check that the file RRDs.pm is readable, and located in one of the paths
   listed in the error message.  Also, check that auto/RRDs/RRDs.so exists
   under the same area - this is called by the RRDs.pm Perl library.  Under
   Windows, this file is called RRDs.dll instead.
   If using Windows, did you do the 'ppm install rrds.ppd' command in the 
   perl-shared directory, as instructed in the install instructions?
   If using UNIX, did you remember to do the 'make site-perl-install' command 
   after you installed the main code?

Q. I get a message saying 'Offline mode: enter name=value pairs'

A. You are running the script interactively.  It is not supposed to be run
   in this manner - you are supposed to use a web browser and access the
   script via a web server.  Check the INSTALL file for information on how
   to install the package correctly.

Q. I'm using NT, and I get nothing but a single page telling me it can't find
   the configuration file.

A. Did you remember to set the configuration file location in the routers.cgi
   file?  Note that under NT, the path separator is a backstroke ('\'), and so 
   you have to use a DOUBLE backstroke (it is the Perl escape character).
   For example, "d:\\mrtg\\routers2.conf"

Q. I have installed it all, and all I get is blank pages/error messages.

A. Try running the script manually at the command line.  This may present
   you with an error message that was hidden by the CGI web interface. Also
   check the routers2.conf file to make sure that all the paths are correctly
   specified.  If running UNIX, Perl should be in /usr/local/bin/perl.  If it
   isnt, then modify the first line of the script to be correct.
   If using UNIX, or Apache under NT, you will probably need to modify the
   '#!/usr/local/bin/perl' at the start of the scripts.
   Note that the supplied install.pl script should have made these changes for
   you.

Q. I get one or more frames with a 'Server Error' page!  

A. This is usually a CGI problem.  Does your server have CGI Exec set for the
   script directory?  Does the script have execute permission for the HTTPD
   user?  Have you put something incorrect in the .conf file?  Have you been
   editing the routers.cgi script yourself?
   Try running the routers.cgi script from the command line and look for a more
   detailed error message.  If it works, check that the HTTP daemon user has
   rights to the necessary directories.

Q. The menu of routers appears OK, but the main graph window is blank.

A. Have you installed the RRDs Perl libraries?  Check the web server error
   logs and see if any more helpful error emssages are in there.
   Make sure your RRDs.pm library file is under the site_perl directory.  With
   NT, this is something like c:\Perl\site\lib, in UNIX it is something like
   /usr/lib/perl5/site_perl/5.005/

Q. I get a web page appearing with the error 
   "No RRD file defined for interface  ''"
   and none of the routers are listed on the left-hand menu.

A. This is a problem locating the MRTG configuration files.  Check your
   routers2.conf file has the correct confpath and cfgfiles entries, and (if
   you are using a UNIX system) that you have not saved your routers2.conf in
   DOS format.  If you are using NT, you are NOT allowed any spaces in the
   file names or path names.

Q. I have a 64k line, and defined the max bandwidth as 8000 bytes. Now this
   is being reported as something like 62.5kbit.  Why isnt it 64kbit?

A. Remember that 1k = 1024.  So, 64kbit = 64x1024 bit = 8192 bytes.  However,
   1Mbit = 1x1000x1024bit.  This is all down to the wonders of networking.
   If you really want 1k=1000, put the 'usebigk = no' option in the routers2.conf
   Alternatively, you can put 'usebigk = yes' to make 1M=1024x104bit

Q. I get strange numbers, such as 62kbit when I know it is 64kbit.

A. Sounds like a conflict in size of a K.  You can use the 'usebigk = no'
   directive in the routers2.conf to force 1k=1000 instead of 1k=1024.
   See the previous question.

Q. I get an RRD error message mentioning 'RPN' and 'in,,*'

A. This is a knock-on error caused by failure to correctly parse the MRTG
   .conf files.  Make sure you have the latest version of routers.cgi from
   the web site!
   If this does not correct the problem, please email the error message, 
   and .conf files, to me so that I can track down the problem.

Q. I get an error: 'Could not find file /usr/locl/etc/webdev.conf'

A. This means that the CGI script is still looking for its configuration file
   (the routers2.conf file shipped with the script) in the default location.
   You should modify the indicated line at the beginning of the script to
   indicate where you have installed the script configuration file.
   Note that if you use the servers.cgi, rrdbar.cgi or pandaplay.cgi scripts,
   they can all share the same .conf file.

Q. No graphs are created, but everything else is OK

A. Check you have given write permission for the httpd process to the graphs
   directory.  Check the paths for the graphs directory, and the database 
   directory, are set correctly in routers.cgi.
   Check that you have the 'logformat: rrd' option set in your MRTG .conf files.
   Check that you have the 'graphurl' and 'graphpath' options set correctly.
   Remeber that the 'graphurl' should start and end with a /.
   Check that the HTTP daemon process can write to the 'graphpath' directory.

Q. The graphs are created, but never seem to refresh or update.

A. Check you have the .htaccess file in the graphs directory.  Check that 
   your web server has enabled the Override and Expires options for this
   directory.  If your web server does not support .htaccess, find out the
   appropriate way to set expiry or 'never cache' on the graphs directory.
   If you are using a shortened interval (<5min) then make sure you have 
   appropriately shortened your expiry interval too.

Q. The script runs, but there is no list of routers.

A1. Check you have the correct path for the MRTG config files.
A2. If you have windows, make sure there are no spaces in the path name or
   cfg filenames.

Q. The interface descriptions come up as numbers, not as their names.

A. Check that the MRTG program is correctly running.  If it fails, it will
   not create the .ok files, which are used by routers.cgi to identify the
   interface descriptions.

Q. I have no maximum bandwidth line on the graph!

A. Make sure you have the MaxBytes[....] option set for that interface.  Using
   a default (MaxBytes[_]:) is not good enough. (This is now corrected)
   Have you set the maxima=no option in the routers2.conf?  Have you set it to
   be scaled, and so the max bandwidth line is off the top of the page?
   Do you have the 'nomax' option set?

Q. The daily graphs are fine, but the weekly, monthly and yearly fail.

A. Have you disabled the WithPeak options in the .cfg files?  You need to
   have the WithPeak set as the graphs use the value.  

Q. It all seems to run, but the lefthand frame has lots of broken images in it.

A. Check you have the .gif files in the ICONS directory, and that the 
   routers.cgi script is correctly giving the URL of this directory.
   Check your routers2.conf file specified the correct iconurl URL.

Q. I have very little traffic on my interface, and the scale means that it
   appears as almost nothing.  How can I change the graph Y scale?

A1.The graph Y Max value will always be >= MaxBytes[] for the interface, if
   it is set.  This is the red line on the graph. 
   You can change the default behaviour of routers.cgi by using the 
   'unscaled = no' option in the routers2.conf, to remove the max line.  Note 
   also that routers.cgi support the 'Unscaled[]: dwmy' directive in the 
   MRTG .cfg file, although it defaults to unscaled.  See the HOWTO file.

A2.You can also use the 'Rescale' button to change the vertical scaling between
   the three different options.  One of these should show the data correctly.

Q. When I want to go back to a previous graph, I have to hit the 'Back'
   button on my browser twice!

A. This is a known problem due to the way in which the pages update.  The menu
   frame is updated at the same time as the graph frame, and it counts as two 
   updates.  There /is/ a way to fix this, but it's a lot of work and not due
   for inclusion until a later release.  So, just live with it - sorry!

Q. Although all the .conf files are there, not all my routers appear in the
   list.  What has happenned?

A. This may be down to the format of your .conf files.  Maybe there are 
   strange characters in your community strings, or in the Target[] names?
   The current version tries to produce visible error messages for all .conf
   files that it is unable to understand.

Q. I get a router/interface called 'Parse Error' on my screen.

A. This means that the routers.cgi script is having problems understanding
   your MRTG .conf file.  You may be using a strange Title[] line, or have
   explicit OIDs or interface names in your Target[] line.  Select the router,
   and then go to the Info page.  This gives the detailed error messages.  If
   this is no help, email me the offending .conf file and this page of error
   messages so that I can investigate.

Q. I get an error: 'RRD Error: Cant parse DEF'.  I am running under NT.

A. This is probably a path name issue.  Check that you have the correct type
   of strokes '/' and '\' in the appropriate places in the routers2.conf.
   Set the 'NT = 1' option in the routers2.conf to for NT operation.
   If this doesnt fix it, look in the routers.cgi file for a variable called
   '$pathsep'.  Change the line to say:
	my ($pathsep) = "\\";
   This might fix things.  If you make any other changes necessary to ensure
   working under Windows NT, please email me and let me know so they can be
   incorporated into the next release.

Q. There are no Hour numbers on the X-axis of the Daily graph
Q. There are no week numbers on the x-axis of the Monthly graph

A. Your version of Perl does not support all the options to strftime.  This is
   particularly a problem with ActivePerl.  Try setting 'NT=1' in the [web]
   section of the routers2.conf file, if you have NT.  Otherwise, modify the
   'my ($dailylabel) = "%k";' line to have '%H' instead.
   Week numbers can be set in the routers2.conf - style 'V' does not work 
   under ActivePerl.  Set it to U or W for it to become visible.

Q. I have just upgraded, and my 4-hour graphs no longer appear!

A. They are now (more accurately) called 6-hour graphs.  The routers2.conf
   directive has also changed to '6hour = yes'.

Q. I am getting very odd behaviour, all interfaces appearing in the routers
   list and some pages blank or in separate windows.  I am using speedycgi
   or mod_perl to run the script.

A. Sometimes the script does not work reliably with mod_perl or speedycgi.
   In this case, you should stop using mod_perl and use '-r 1' as a speedycgi
   option.

Q. The frames are not working - sometimes new windows start up, and sometimes
   one frame will take over the entire window.

A. You might be running speedycgi (see other question), or you might be trying
   to run multiple instances of your web browser, all going to routers.cgi
   pages.  Because of the way routers.cgi names the frames, you may get strange
   behaviour if you try to have more than one frameset active at once.

Q. When I use my monochrome PDA to view the pages, I cant read the titles.

A. Make sure you select one of the black&white Styles - Psion or Palm.

Q. When I use my PDA to view the graphs, everything appears except the graphs
   themselves!

A. Your PDA browser may not support PNGs.  Make sure you have PNG=0 in the
   routers2.conf file , so that you will only generate GIFs.

Q. When I'm using my PDA, the entire screen redraws, not just the graph window.

A. This is deliberate - many PDA browsers do not support JavaScript, and so
   when you are using a PDA Style, the links change to remove the need for
   Javascript (at the cost of some efficiency and speed).

Q. I can't make the targetnames.pl script work.

A. Make sure you are specifying the correct name and locating for your 
   routers2.conf file on the command line.
   You must be in the SAME DIRECTORY as the MRTG SNMP_Util.pm when you run
   the script, or else have these perl modules in your Perl library path.
   Dont forget to redirect the output to a temporary output file for inclusion
   into your current routers2.conf!

Q. The install script doesn't work/can't find my web server/etc

A. There are an almost infinite number of possible system configurations, and
   I can only support a few - Apache, NT, UNIX, and IIS.  Also, there is no
   guarantee that your system has things installed in the 'expected' places.
   Make sure you have Perl in your path, and that (on NT) you specify all of 
   your local hard drive letters.
   Also, install.pl can make no changes to your NT registry or web server
   configuration, so it's up to you to get mod_expires enabled under Apache,
   and Perl CGI scripts enabled under NT (see the ActivePerl website for
   instructions on how to do this).
   If you can work out how to improve install.pl, then I'd be glad to hear from
   you.

Q. The install script runs, and I get a 'drive not ready' message.  I am using
   Windows.

A. You should make sure that, when it asks, you tell it the drive letters of
   your FIXED DISKS only, not your CDROM or floppy.

Q. I can't  find any 'CPU Load' pages for my router

A. Have you added a CPU Load MRTG target in the MRTG .cfg file?  Read the 
   HOWTO file to see how to add a CPU Load target to your existing MRTG 
   configuration.  Make sure the target name has 'CPU' (in capitals) in it,
   and has MaxBytes set to 100.

Q. Everything works fine apart from the Compact summary page.  The bars all
   appear with an error message in them about 'GD'.

A. This happens because you have not installed the GD Perl libraries.  Download
   these from the www.CPAN.org website, install them, and it should be OK.
   If you are using NT and ActivePerl, then use the PPM program to install
   the GD library - see the ActivePerl documentation on 
   http://aspn.activestate.com/ASPN/PPM/FAQ

   UNIX users should visit http://www.boutell.com/gd/ and download v1.8 of the
   gd libraries in addition to the GD.pm perl interface.  Note that the version
   of the gd libraries shipped with Linux is often too old!  Don't install
   the GD.pm perl interface until you have the right version of the gd library
   installed - if you do, it will compile in the wrong static libraries.

   Alternatively, you can disable the Compact Summary page by placin the
   directive 'compact = no' in the routers2.conf.

Q. There are no 'working day' averages on the Yearly graph!

A. This is because the Yearly data is summarised by day, and so it is not
   possible to separate out the working hours from the RRD, due to the lossy
   nature of the RRD data.  At this level, the granularity is too high.

Q. I cant see the working day summary data!

A. Make sure you enable it by setting the daystart and dayend values in the
   routers2.conf file.

Q. I'm using windows, and all I get is a download of the Perl script, not the
   generated pages.

A. This is because you have not configured your Web Server or Windows to 
   correctly deal with a Perl script.  Your web server does not understand
   that this is a program to be passed to perl.exe for running.  Check the
   activeperl website for instructions on how to correctly configure both
   Windows and Apache/IIS.  You will probably have to associate the .pl 
   extension with the Perl executable.

Q. I have put a directive in the MRTG .cfg file, but the format of the graphs
   displayed has not changed.

A. Check that you dont have a graph already in the cache, or in the graphs
   directory on the web server.
   Check that the directive you have used is supported by routers.cgi - look
   at the list in the MRTG_INFO file.

Q. I am Israeli/Arab and my working week is not Mon-Fri.  How can you be so 
   predjudiced and not support Sun-Thu/Sat-Wed ?

A. It is actually extremely hard to identify the day of the week using just
   5 RPN functions when you have only the number of seconds since 1/1/70. To
   make this calculation generic would be incredibly awkward.  It is in the
   WISHILST but has not been done just yet.  This has not been omitted due to
   any prejudice, just due to practicality.  If this is important to you,
   then you could always encourage me by sending a gift from the wishlist...

Q. My graphs have all come out grey, with the figures below being listed
   as 'nan' in all cases.

A. This means you have no data gathered.  Make sure MRTG is running correctly
   with no errors for at least 15 mins before looking at the data (ie, you have
   at least 3 consecutive samples in the database).

Q. Some of my interfaces have appeared in the menu with a target icon, and not
   an interface icon.  They also appear to be graphed differently.

A. This is because the definition in the Target[] line was not fully understood
   by the routers.cgi script, so it was assumed to be a user defined target.
   It is also assumed to be something other than router traffic data.  If this
   is not the case, read the HOWTO, and optionally use the options:
	routers.cgi*Options[targetname]: interface
	routers.cgi*InSummary[targetname]: yes
	routers.cgi*InOut[targetname]: yes
   You can also set the 'mode' for this target to 'interface', 'cpu', 'memory'
   or 'generic'.  This is done with
	routers.cgi*Mode[targetname]: interface
   which will set all the appropriate defaults for that mode.
   Make sure your Target[]: line comes BEFORE any other option lines for 
   that target!

Q. I've installed the GD libraries, and now my bar graphs appear as just
   grey bars.  Why isn't it working?

A. This usually happens on UNIX systems that have a version of the GD C
   library that is too old.  Download the latest libgd.a from www.boutell.com,
   and then reinstall the GD perl libraries.

Q. I cannot make the graphs time show relative to the correct timezone!

A. Are you using Windows?  Much of the timezone code does not work under
   Windows as it will not support the TZ variable.  Under windows, everything
   must be relative to the server's timezone (although you can change this 
   globally in the routers2.conf [web] section).
   For more information, check the HOWTO.

Q. The AVERAGE line in my graphs doesnt seem to have an 'average' or 'max'
   that matches the values I expect.  This is for a userdefined graph.

A. Remember that this represents the AVERAGE of the TOTAL of the data, rather
   than the TOTAL of the AVERAGE.  Similarly, it is the max of the average,
   rather than the average of the max values.  This shows more when looking
   at yearly graphs (the line shows the daily average) and comparing the max
   values (when the individual peaks are not shown).

Q. I've upgraded Perl, and now routers.cgi no longer works!

A. When you upgraded, did you change the location of the Perl executable?
   If so, remember to change the first #! line in the routers.cgi file, so that
   your web server can run it.  Also, you may need to change file extension
   associations (in Windows) or your web server configuration, in order for
   Perl to work correctly.  Finally, you may need to reinstall any Perl 
   modules that you installed with the old version -- for example, the GD
   perl module, and the RRD perl libraries.

Q. I cant seem to use Windows pathnames of the \\hostname\share\path format

A. This is because the RRDTool libraries do not support this sort of name.
   Instead, map a drive letter and use something like Z:\path instead.

Q. The 'Bookmark' button doesn't create a bookmark in my Favorites list!

A. It isn't supposed to.  The Bookmark button creates a bookmarkable URL in
   the target address, so that you can then subsequently use your browser's
   'Add bookmark' (or 'Add to favorites' in MSIE) function.  There is no
   standard javascript function to cause a bookmark to be automatically added
   to your browser, although MSIE has a non-standard way of achieving this.

Q. The date format in the Archive menu is wrong!  I want d/m/y or m/d/y etc...

A. This is because your server is not correctly setting or reacting to the 
   locale settings.  You can override this by uncommenting the correct line
   in the routers2.conf file for 'shortdateformat'.

Q. My per-Device user defined Extension script is not being passed the 
   hostname and community string!

A. Move the definition in the .cfg file to the end, so that it is after a
   target definition that holds this information.  Also, if you require the
   SNMP community string, you need to add the keyword 'insecure' to the end
   of the Extension definition in the .cfg file.

Q. I get some error messages in the log that say 'Cant locate object method
   "png" via package "GD::Image"' or similar.

A. You have an old version of the GD libraries that only support GIF.  Either
   upgrade to the latest GD libraries, or disable PNG in your routers2.conf
   file by changing to 'png = 0' in the [web] section.

Q. The labels on the 'Monthly' graph are wrong!
Q. The timezone is not changing the graph times!

A. Upgrade your version of RRDTool to 1.0.36 or later.  This behavour is 
   caused by a bug in the RRDTool library prior to v1.0.36.  Windows users
   should be aware that a bug in ActivePerl means that the 'V' week numbering
   style does not work, and should use U or W instead.

Q. I have just upgraded from v1.x to this version, and now none of my
   bookmarks work!

A. Between v1.x and v2.x, the internal key system was vastly improved.  
   However, this meant that old v1.x style bookmarks could no longer be
   supported.  Sorry, but you'll have to re-create your bookmarked graphs.
   See the UPGRADING documentation for more details.

Q. All of my data appear to be multiplied by 8 and shown in bits, when it is
   supposed to be in bytes or some other unit

A. This is either because (1) the target is being incorrectly identified as
   an interface, or (2) you have specified Options[]: bits which is causing
   the behaviour.
   To stop (1), add the directive below (replace the targetname).  Youc an
   identify the mode a target is being identified as by looking at the word 
   in the curly braces {} on the file's Info screen for this target.
	routers.cgi*Mode[targetname]: generic
   To stop (2), look in your .cfg file for the Options[targetname]: line and
   make sure it does not specify 'bits'.  Look also for an 'Options[_]: bits'
   or 'Options[^]: bits' since these will be added/replaced/appended to the 
   per-target options.  Note that a global option affects ALL targets, not just
   the ones following it.
   You can also use
	routers.cgi*Options[targetname]: bytes
   to force a target to be treated as a 'bytes' target.

Q. I use Include:s, and I can get some Target menus with several 'Routing Table'
   links.  I only want one of them!  How do I stop the others?
Q. I don't want the routing table link to be added for some of my .cfg files.

A. Use the command in the MRTG .cfg file:
	routers.cgi*RoutingTable: no
   to switch off the automatic routing table extension for the current file 
   and all following Include:s.  If you use this at the beginning there
   will be no links, or you can use it after the first include if you want only
   one.

Q. I'm using Windows for my server.  The Working Day and Unknown background
   highlighting does not seem to work.

A. This is because of a difference in RRDTool under UNIX and Windows.  Under
   the current Windows version, it is not possible to do background
   highlighting, so it does not appear.
   This has been confirmed as a bug in the Windows RRDTool library, so with
   luck this will be fixed in RRDTool v1.0.39 or later under Windows.(Sep 2002)
   Now confirmed fixed in the latest Windows version. v1.0.40 (Dec 2003)

Q. My weekly graphs have the X-axis labelled 'week' and not 'week <number>'.
   Where are my week numbers?

A. This is a bug in earlier versions of RRDTool.  In order to correct it, you
   should upgrade your RRDTool to at least v1.0.29, preferably v1.0.35 or 
   later.  Also, Windows users should note that a bug in Activeperl means that
   the 'V' week numbering does not work.  You should use U or W instead.

Q. The CSV export seems to have different data from the graph.  Also, the 
   total usage figures on the graph dont match the total of the CSV table.

A. Remember that the CSV export is the RAW data.  So, the graph may show the
   throughput in bits instead of bytes, or perminute instead of per second.
   For totals, you have to multiple the throughput by the time interval before
   you add the figures.  Larger interval graphs will average the figures for
   smaller intervals in order to get the graph.
   The interval used in the export is the best available from the .rrd file you
   have - this may be a different granularity to the data in the graph you
   see.  However, the data should match after averaging.

Q. I get an error about units-exponent

A. This happens if you are using the fixunits option and have a too old version
   of RRDTool.  Either upgrade rrdtool, or stop using fixunits

Q. My Compact Summary page does not appear in the menu

A. You have disabled the Compact Summary in your routers2.conf file.  Make sure
   you have 'compact = yes' in there.

A. This is because routers.cgi does not think there are any Targets that would
   be shown on this page.  All of your targets have defaulted to NOT being on
   the Compact Summary page.  You can force a target to appear in the Compact 
   summary page by using the directive:
	routers.cgi*InCompact[targetname]: yes
   in your MRTG .cfg file.

Q. Some of the directives in my MRTG file appear to be being ignored!

A. All directives in the MRTG file for a particular target MUST come AFTER
   the Target[]: definition.  Otherwise, they will be ignored.
   Also, make sure you haven't overridden one set of directives with another.
   Finally, not all of MRTGs directives are supported by routers.cgi -- check
   the MRTG_INFO file for details of what is supported, and what is not.

Q. I can't seem to get the correct units from the kMG[] directive

A. The kMG MRTG directive is not supported by routers.cgi, since there is
   no way (currently) to pass this sort of configuration to the RRDTool
   graphing libraries.  Instead, use Factor[] to multiply the values so that
   they are in the correct units -- eg, Factor[x]: 1024000 if your SNMP
   agent is returning values in Mb.

Q. routers.cgi does not seem to recognise my .cfg files

A. Check your cfgfiles and confpath definitions.  If you use Windows, then
   make sure there are no spaces or / characters in the path or file names,
   as these can confuse Perl.  Use the configuration verification pages to
   see if they are being spotted, but have no valid Targets in (any empty
   or invalid files are ignored).

Q. This runs very slow...

A. There are a few things you can do to improve performance.  Use speedycgi
   or mod_perl (but read the HOWTO first -- there are a few special things
   you need to do first!).  Put the .cfg files on a ram disk.  Remove comments
   in the .cfg files and routers2.conf.  Make sure you have enough memory and
   CPU in your monitoring server.  Check disk access times.  Make sure your
   .cfg files do not contain >100 targets each.

Q. There are lots of problems with this version!  Where can I get the latest
   version with all the fixes?

A. http://www.steveshipway.org/software/
   http://www.shipway.org.uk/software/

Q. I want this bug fixed!  Who do I tell about it?

A. steve@steveshipway.org
   Note that this project is done in spare time, so I will do more or less 
   work on it depending on my *real* workload.  You are, of course, free to
   make your own changes to the code an fix the bug yourself (but please
   email me to let me know of the problem)

Q. I really like this program.  What can I do to say 'thanks' ?

A. Contribute something yourself to the Internet.  Write a utility, app, 
   or whatever, maybe run a mailing list or newsgroup, join an open source
   project, write a game and send it out as free/shareware.  Keep the
   co-operation fuelled.
   If you want to give me a gift (who am I to complain?) there are some
   suggestions on the application homepage.  Tobi Oeticker, who wrote MRTG
   and RRDTool, would also like you to help build his CD collection.  See his
   pages for details.
   I have an Amazon Wishlist set up on www.amazon.co.uk, so you can send
   me something from there if you'd like?
   http://www.steveshipway.org/software/wishlist.html

