v2.21               routers.conf file: valid options.
                    ---------------------------------

The routers.conf file can be shared between several applications, and has a
format similar to a Windows .ini file - ie, it is separated into sections,
and each section has a number of parameters.

Each section begins with a line containing the section name in square brackets,
and ends at the beginning of the next section.

Options are given as the option name, followed by an '=' symbol, followed
by the option data, terminated by the end of line.  There is no line
continuation character - options take a single line only.

The main sections are:
[web] : This is global options over all applications
[routers.cgi] : Global options for the routers.cgi frontend
[targetnames] :  Short names for individual titles
[targettitles] : Long names for individual targets
[targeticons] : Icon files for individual targets
[servers] : Server names for the server monitoring extensions
[menu] : Links to be added to the Devices menu for all users
[archive] : Options for the rrd file archiving utility

Note that you can optionally define your own section in addition to these,
which can hold the same directives as the [routers.cgi] section.  This new
section will be used to override the [routers.cgi] section directives, if it
is enabled by either passing the 'extra=sectionname' parameter to the CGI, or
by renaming routers.cgi to match the new section name.  See the HOWTO for more
details on this functionality.

The individual options are described below.

[web] : Global options
----------------------

Name: backurl
Default: /
Use: This is where the link on the 'Main Menu' button will take you.
Format: This should be a URL, possibly relative to the script URL. If set to
   blank, then the Main Menu button is not displayed.

Name: png
Default: no
Use: Is it OK for the script to produce PNG files rather than GIFs?
Format: yes / no 
Note: Your RRDTool install must support GIFs to use GIFs.  Some web browsers 
   (notably PDAs) are unable to display PNG files.  Very old RRDTool and/or
   GD libraries do not support PNGs: more recent ones do not support GIFs.

Name: NT
Default: no
Use: Should we enable the NT compatibility options?  
Format: yes / no
Note: This is automatically set to YES if the system detects NT.  Only set it
   here if the system makes a mistake.

Name: csvmimetype
Default: text/comma-separated
Format: A complete MIME type
Use: This is the MIME type assigned to downloaded .csv files when you select
   the CSV option.

Name: csvfilename
Default: export.csv
Format: A single filename, with no path separator
Use: This is the filename sent with the .csv file.  This is most meaningful to
   MSIE, which uses the filename extension to determine the default action
   to perform on the downloaded data, rather than the MIME type.

Name: timezone
Default: 0
Format: An integer difference, in hours, of your default timezone from GMT.
Use: Only necessary if your system is unable to determine its own timezone,
   or if you wish to report data in a different timezone to the server's
   timezone.  May not work effectively under NT because the time libraries
   under NT do not support dynamic timezones in environment variables.

Name: shortdateformat
Default: %R&nbsp;%x
Format: POSIX strftime formatting string
Use: If you need to override the default (taken from locale settings) date
   format used in Archive dates, you can use this.  

Name: weeknumber
Default: %U
Format: %[UVW]
Use: If your system has a broken strftime(), and the week number on the 
   monthly graphs does not appear.  

Name: hournumber
Default: %k
Format: %[kHI]
Use: If your system has a broken strftime(), and the hour number on the 
   daily graphs does not appear.  

Name: auth-required
Default: no
Format: yes no optional
Use: To enable internal authentication.  In 'yes' mode, the user MUST log in
   in order to see pages. In 'opt' mode, a not-logged-in user can see the 
   default system (which may be empty, of course).  In 'no' mode, the login
   button is not shown.

Name: auth-expire
Default: +5min
Format: +<time>
Example: +1day
Use: To set cookie expiry time.  IE, how long you can remain idle and still 
  logged in.

Name: auth-key
Default: not set
Format: anything
Use: To set a secret key used for building authentication tokens.  This should
   be set to something unique for your site.

Name: ldap-server
Default: not set
Format: hostname or IP address
Use: To enable LDAP authentication, when auth-required is enabled.  Note that
   this requires the Net::LDAP module.

Name: ldaps-server
Default: not set
Format: hostname or IP address
Use: To enable LDAPS authentication, when auth-required is enabled.  Note that
   this requires the Net::LDAP module, SSLeay and OpenSSL.

Name: ldap-context
Default: not set
Format: LDAP context list, separated by semicolons
Example: ou=Finance, o=My Company, C=NZ; ou=IT, o=My Company, C=NZ
Use: To define which context(s) are searched for login information.

Name: mysql-server
Default: not set
Format: hostname[:port]
Use: Set MySQL authentication server host name

Name: mysql-database
Default: not set
Use: Set database name for mysql authentication

Name: mysql-user
Name: mysql-password
Default: not set (check via direct bind)
Use: Define bind user for MySQL if you want to use table auth instead of bind

Name: mysql-table
Default: not set
Use: Default table name to home list of users and encrypted passwords, if using
  mysql auth in table mode instead of in direct bind mode

Name: langdir
Default: same directory as the routers2.conf file
Format: full directory name
Example: /usr/local/etc/lang/
Use: To define where to find the lang_xx.conf files

Name: allow-execs
Default: no
Format: yes/no
Use: To enable the %EXEC()% symbol expansion feature (this may be a security 
  risk so is disabled by default)

[routers.cgi] : Option specific to routers.cgi system
-----------------------------------------------------

Name: dbpath
Required in file
Format: Complete path name of directory.  Do not end in path separator.
Use: This is the default directory for locating the .rrd files.  In fact this
   parameter is rarely used, since most MRTG files will specify the location
   of the .rrd files themselves - but it is required as a default.

Name: graphpath
Required in file
Format: Complete path name of directory.  Do not end in path separator.
Use: Location where the graph files are to be created.  This directory must
   be writeable by the web server process, and must be accessible via HTTP.

Name: graphurl
Required in file
Format: URL path (remember to use / as the path separator)
Use: The URL path corresponding to the graphpath directory.

Name: confpath
Required in file
Format: Complete path name of directory.  Do not end in path separator.
Use: The top directory for storage of MRTG .cfg files.  All .cfg files are
   located under this directory, possibly in subdirectories.

Name: cfgfiles
Required in file
Format: space-separated list of wildcarded filenames and relativepaths.
Eg: dir1/*.cfg router*.cfg */fish.cfg
Use: This is to specify all the MRTG configuration files, relative to the
   confpath directory.

Name: iconurl
Required in file
Format: URL path of directory
Eg: /rrdicons/
Use: This is the URL of the directory containing all of the routers.cgi icon 
   files.

Name: defaultinterface
Default: first
Format: one of: first summary cpu memory interface incoming outgoing
Use: This indicates which target to initially show when first selecting a
   new Device.   Note this can be overridden on a per-Target basis by the
   extended option 'default'.
   first: select the first target, after sorting alphabetically
   summary: the summary page, if it exists.  Otherwise, as first
   cpu: the first CPU target, if any.  Otherwise, as first
   memory: the first Memory target, if any.  Otherwise, as first
   interface: the first interface target, if any.  Otherwise, as first.
   incoming: the Incoming graph, if it exists.  Otherwise, as first.
   outgoing: the Outgoing graph, if it exists.  Otherwise, as first.

Name: graphstyle
Default: normal
Format: one of: normal short tall long big extralong huge
Use: Specify what the default Graph Style is, unless overridded by personal
   preferences or explicit choice.
Note: If 'normal' or smaller is chosen, then the 'legendunit' option may 
   not work correctly due to the graph size being too small for the text.

Name: optimise
Default: no
Format: yes/no
Use: Optimise reading of .cfg files by system, by not scanning entire file
Note: To use this, any routers.cgi*Extension:, routers.cgi*Redirect:,
   routers.cgi*Desc: lines (ie, any routers.cgi* global definitions)
   MUST be BEFORE the first Target[] definition, else they will be ignored.
   This speeds things up by about a factor of 10 on large systems, but using
   speedycgi or mod_perl will have a similar effect at no cost.

Name: withpeak
Default: yes
Format: yes / no
Use: Are the 'peak' lines to be shown on weekly/monthly etc graphs, by 
   default?  This can be overidden in the MRTG file.

Name: maxima
Default: yes
Format: yes / no
Use:  Should the red 'Max' line be added to graphs?
Note: If Unscaled is set, then the line may not be visible, but it will still
   be there (and mentioned in the legend).

Name: unscaled
Default: yes
Format: yes / no
Use: Should graphs be scaled on the y-axis, to show the data in maximum
   resolution?  This can be overidden in the MRTG configuration file.

Name: 6hour
Default: no
Format: yes / no
Use: Enable support of 6-hour graphs
Note: 6-hour graphs will only be possible if the data Interval is set to less
   than 5 mins (the default for MRTG).  You need to have the line
   Interval: 1
   in your MRTG file, and re-create your .rrd files, for this to work.

Name: percentile
Default: no
Format: yes / no
Use: Enable 95th Percentile and Total Usage calculations, where appropriate.
Note: This can eat a LOT of CPU/Memory, so make sure to test with it OFF first.
   If a target has the 'nototal' option, then Total Usage will be suppressed.

Name: uselastupdate
Default: no
Format: yes / no
Use: Use the .rrd Last Update time as the base for the graphs, rather than 
   the current time.
Note: This can be useful if you are demo'ing the software with old data, or
   if you want to avoid the occasional appearance of 'unavailable' data at the
   end of the graph.

Name: usebigk
Default: mixed
Format: yes / no / mixed
Use: define the size of a k and an M.
Note: This depends on the sort of data you're graphing.
   yes  -> 1k=1024, 1M=1024x1024
   no   -> 1k=1000, 1M=1000x1000
   mixed-> 1k=1024, 1M=1024x1000 (default) Yes its strange but its what our
                                  Cisco routers appear to use.

Name: sorder
Default: s t n n2 l l2 x x2 sbp nbp sp np
Format: a list containing one or more of the following values, in a specific
   order, not more than once each.
   values: s t n n2 l l2 x x2 sbp nbp sp np
Use: Specify which graph styles are in the menu, in which order.
Note: The first in the list is the default graph style.  Be VERY careful with
   this option, there is not much error checking for it.

Name: routingtableurl
No default
Format: The URL of the routingtable.cgi script
Use: Specify where to find the routingtable script, and enable its use.
Note: By setting this option, you enable the use of the routingtable
   extension.  Be aware of the security implications of this!  In addition, 
   this requires the Net::SNMP Perl module to be installed.

Name: mrtgpagetop
Name: mrtgpagefoot
Default: no
Format: yes / no
Use: Enable the display of the PageTop and PageFoot MRTG directives.
Note: Enabling these clutters up the space quite a bit.

Name: pagetop
Name: pagefoot
No default
Format: a block of text, with HTML codes.
Use: Define some additional text to include at the top and bottom of the 
   graph.  This can contain the symbols %DEVICE% and %TARGET% which are
   replaced with the current device filename and targetname.

Name: menufontsize
Default: 3
Format: positive integer
Use: set the font size for the lefthand menu. 

Name: showtotal
Default: no
Format: yes / no
Use: show a 'Total' line on the default incoming and outgoing graphs?

Name: group
Default: no
Format: yes / no
Use: Enable the grouping feature for the 'Devices' menu in the lefthand frame.

Name: compact
Default yes
Format: yes / no
Use: enable the Compact Summary page, if there are any eligible targets for
   this device.

Name: allowexplore
Default: yes
Format: yes / if / no
Use: restrict exploring of other devices and/or targets.  If set to no, then
   the devices and targets menus are suppressed.  If set to 'if', then only
   the devices menu is suppressed.  You can still follow bookmarks to view
   the graphs, though.

Name: daystart
Name: dayend
Default: blank
Format: blank, or 0 - 24
Use: Define the 'working day' period, and enable the working day averages.
   Also enable the highlighting of working hours on the graphs. 
Note: Obviously dayend > daystart.

Name: windowtitle
Default: Router Monitor
Format: text string
Use: Define the title to be used for the browser window.

Name: pagetitle
Default: <H1>contents of windowtitle</H1>
Format: HTML text string
Use: Define the title to be used in the page header.

Name: bars
Default: cami
Format: [cC]?[aA]?[mM]?[pP]?(i|o)?
Use: Options for bar graphs in Compact Summary.  This is a string of letters to
  indicate which bars to show: (c)urrent, (a)verage, (m)ax and (p)ercentile
  You cannot  use percentile if you have not previously enabled it.
  ONE of these MAY be capitalised to indicate a sort order.
  In addition you can use (i)n or (o)ut to indicate which part of the traffic
  to sort by (default IN)
  The order of the letters is not significant.

Name: bytes
Default: no
Format: yes / no
Use: Change system default to be showing router traffic in bytes, unless it
   is overridden in the .cfg file.  Unreliable -- better to use the .cfg file
   option 'routers.cgi*Options[_]: bytes' instead.

Name: bgcolour
Name: bgcolor
Name: menubgcolour
Name: menubgcolor
Format: #xxxxxx (rrggbb hex colour code)
Default: #d0d0d0 (menu), #ffffff (background)
Use:  Default background colour for the system, on pages and on the menu bars.  
Note: If anyone is daft enough to use both spellings, then the British spelling
   (ie, with the 'u') takes precedence.

Name: legendunits
Default: no
Format: yes / no
Use: Show the units in the graph legend?  This requires a larger graph size in
   order to fit it in.  

Name: twinmenu
Default: no
Format: yes / no
Use: Enable the 'twin' menu system, with the Devices and Targets menus both
   visible at the same time.
Note: This does not work well in any screen size less than 800x600

Name: minrefreshtime
Default: 0
Format: positive integer in seconds
Use: Allow you to prevent too-frequent refresh of graphs on slow servers
Note: The graphs will never refresh more frequently than they need to.

Name: menuwidth
Default: 150
Format: integer 150 - 500, frame width in pixels
Use: To set the width of the menu side frames to an alternate width

Name: archive
Default: no
Format: yes no read
Use: Enable the archiving facility.  Use 'read' to enable it, but exclude the
   Add and Delete buttons -- for viewing only.

Name: withdate
Default: no
Format: yes no
Use: Add a date stamp onto the bottom right of every graph.  This uses the
   shortdateformat option to format the date.  Note that this is the date
   and time corresponding to the righthand end of the graph -- so, if you
   are using the uselastupdate option, this will be the last update time and
   not the current date and time.

Name: extendedtime
Default: no
Format: yes no test
Use: Enable the extended time window - 'yesterday', 'last week', and so on.
   This requires the .rrd files to have previously been extended, and data
   gathered!  In 'test' mode, the .rrd files are checked, and extendedtime is
   disabled if the .rrd file would not support it.  However, this slows down
   execution of the script.  See the HOWTO for more information on this.

Name: level
Default: 0
Format: number 
Use: Specify security level - this will in turn enable or disable Extension
   scripts and any other features locked by a security level.

Name: withdate
Default: no
Format: yes/no
Use: If set to 'yes', then the current date and time are inserted into the
   bottom right-hand corner of all large generated graphs.  This helps when
   you are using the graph-archive facility.

Name: language
Default:  (none)
Format: 2-character langugage code
Use: Specify the 'xx' in the lang_xx.conf language definition file to load.

Name: maxtitle
Default: 128
Format: integer
Use: specify the maximum length of a title in the graph

Name: altygrid
Default: no
Format: yes/no
Use: enable the Alternative y-grid calculations in RRDTool

Name: pango
Default: no
Fromat: yes/no
Use: enable Pango markup in graph labels 

[targetnames] : new menu names for items
----------------------------------------

You can rename files, targets or groups in this section.  eg:

example.mrtg.file.conf = Example router description
/usr/local/lib/mrtg/config/europe = Example group description
MRTG_target_name = TargetDescr

Name: routerdefault
Format: filename / hostname / ai
Default: ai
Use: Default Device name calculation method, if not overridden explicitly.

Name: ifdefault
Format: target / ai
Default: ai
Use: Default Target name calculation method.

Name: ifsort
Format: mode / desc / icon
Default: mode
Use: How do we sort the descriptions in menus and summary pages?
  mode (default) - sort by mode(type), then description
  desc           - sort by description only
  icon           - sort by icon, then description

[targeticons] : Icon file names for various targets
---------------------------------------------------

MRTG_Target_name = interface-sm.gif
mrtg-cfg-file.cfg = router-sm.gif

Name: filedefault
Format: filename in iconurl
Default: list-sm.gif
Use: Specify the last-resort icon to use in Devices menu, if AI code doesnt
   have a better idea.

Name: ifdefault
Format: filename  in iconurl
Default: target-sm.gif
Use: Specify the last-resort icon to use in Targets menu, if AI code doesnt
   have a better idea.

[menu] : Site defined menu items
--------------------------------

itemkey = [description] url [icon] [targetframe] [securitylevel]
item1   = "Main site portal" http://portal.mysite.com/  door-sm.gif _top

The menu items appears sorted asciibetically by itemkey.
