Installing Perl Modules
-----------------------

Under Windows, you can use the PPM program to install the Perl modules.
To install the RRDTool modules, use
	ppm install RRDs.ppd
when in the perl-shared directory of your RRDTool installation (see the RRDTool
installation instructions for details).
To install GD or Net::SNMP, use
	ppm install GD
	ppm install Net-SNMP
after first setting the proxy variables, if you use a proxy to access the 
Internet (you will need an Internet connection for this to work).  See the PPM
documentationon the ActivePerl website for details.

If you are unable to install GD by the above method, try this instead:
	ppm install http://theoryx5.uwinnipeg.ca/ppms/GD.ppd
or, as a last resort, this:
	ppm install http://www.steveshipway.org/software/3rdparty/GD.ppd

Finally, you can download the files:
	http://www.steveshipway.org/software/3rdparty/GD.ppd
	http://www.steveshipway.org/software/3rdparty/GD.tar.gz
then modify the ppd file appropriately for your system, or even install
the ppm file (inside the .tar.gz) directly.

Caveats for Windows users  (RRDTool v1.0.38 (Win) and before)
-------------------------

If you are running the RRDTool server under Windows, then there are a few 
things that do not work as designed, due to limitations in the Windows version
of RRDTool and the operating system.

1) Timezone support.
   This is not as flexible, since windows does not like to have varying
   timezones.  The RRDTool executable was not compiled with this support.

2) Working day highlighting, and 'greying out' for unknown data
   This does not work, although the cause has been correct and is expected to
   be OK in the next version.  This is due to a bug in the windows version.

3) Day- and week- change lines (etc) in graphs
   Under UNIX, you get a red vertical line to indicate the change of day/week/
   month/year in the graphs.  This does not happen under Windows due to a
   difference in the libraries that cannot be worked around.

4) Week numbering
   Under older versions of RRDTool, you could not have spaces in the axis
   labels.  This causes the 'Monthly' graph to have axis labels that just 
   say 'week' instead of 'week 1' etc.  If this happens, DO NOT define the
   weeknumber option in the routers2.conf file.

5) Windows Path separator
   The windows path separator, '\', is the escape character in almost every
   other system.  This has caused some difficulty in the Bookmark button
   operation, and other places.  This should now be OK (as of routers.cgi
   v2.5) but is a point to watch out for.
