List of things still to do.
---------------------------

Create a 'table' display option, that shows all the data (similar to Compact)
but in a numerical table, also with working day averages.  Maybe as a modifed
Compact or as an option within Compact?

Should have support for kMG[] in MRTG .conf files

Allow the configuring of working days in the routers.conf to allow for 
countries with working weeks other than Mon-Fri (eg, Israel, Arab nations)

Change the Summary graph to be like the routers.cgi*Graph[] graphs, maybe as
a routers.cgi*Group[] definition, so users can define their own summary sets.

Escape targets prefixed with _ to avoid the power of the magic underscore

Non-interactive way of calling archiving functions (this can already be done,
but it would be nice if it was more user-friendly)

Should the archiving only display the archived graphs for the appropriate
time period?

Percentile/total text in graph itself, not below.

Allow grouping to be done at any number of levels deep.

Option in routers2.conf to enable an SNMP lookup (uptime, etc) for a target,
if SNMP details are available.

Thresholding support (enable in routers2.conf?) -- highlight targets in current
device that are outside of their thresholds.  Mark thresholding levels on
the graph (as with maxbytes etc).  Maybe a red/green light after Target in
the menu?

Options for sort order of summary graphs

support Background[] directive to change graph background colour

Support 2nd order approximations in trending, not just 1st order (DIFFICULT)

Allow Total to be in bytes while graph is in bits.

SQL support for authentication

Configuration tool Extension script??

Change names of frames to something more unique

Graphs should be served via CGI, not via web server.  This way we can have more
security, and set our own expiry times on each one.  Ideally, they should be 
served and cached internally, but this is probably too cumbersome.

Have an ifsort=mrtg sort order to show targets in the order they are defined 
in the cfg file.

Test RRD for the existance of the new predictive analysis RRAs, and add a graph
predition line if possible, to show unexpected behaviour.  This might be 
awkward as it is in fact a predicted range (max/min).  Maybe two lines over the
top?  RRD does not support semi-transparent colours yet.

