In here are various scripts and utilities that you may find useful, but which
are not part of the main distribution.  This also includes any user-submitted
scripts.
The scripts in here are not as well supported as the main application.  Any
of them written by someone other than myself are supported by that person - so
report any problems to them, and not to me.
You may well have to modify these scripts by changing the Perl path on the
first line, or by changing the extension or the file execute permissions.
Some of them also require other configuration.  See any accompanying
documentation, or header comments in the files themselves.

graphprune.pl Steve Shipway
    This is a script that can be run nightly to clean up old graphs in the 
    graphs directory, in order to save space. Public domain.

extensions
    This directory holds various plugin extensions for routers.cgi

buildwan.pl Steve Shipway
    This more complex script - which requires Net::SNMP to be installed - will
    take a 'seed' router, and then explore your entire WAN (as far as possible)
    and create a set of MRTG files suitable for use with routers.cgi.  The
    created files will have a number of routers.cgi specific directives added.
    Public domain software.

rrdextend.pl Steve Shipway
    This script will extend the RRAs in all the RRD files for a given MRTG
    .cfg file.  You will need the rrdtool executable in your path to run it.
    You need to do this in order to use the extended time windows options.
    Some of you may wish to modify the location of the rrdtool executable and
    perl executable coded into the script.
    This too is public domain.
  
getstats.sh Steve Shipway
    Statistics gathering backend for server monitor.  Called from inetd.  This
    is used by the gather.pl and servers.cgi extensions.

gather.pl Steve Shipway
    This is the perl script, supposed to be run every 5 mins, that contacts the
    getstats.sh program on remote UNIX hosts to get the load stats.  This data
    is then placed into an RRD and reported by routers.cgi when the servers=yes
    option has been set. 

targetnames Steve Shipway
	This script is used to attempt to generate the [targetnames] section of
	the routers2.conf file, by querying the routers via SNMP.  It uses the
	various SNMP libraries supplied with MRTG.

cfgmaker_host Steve Shipway
	This will make a MRTG .cfg file, with lots of routers.cgi extensions,
    for a specified host.  It will search for the UCD and host MIBs in 
    order to make targets, including the interfaces.  It is supposed to
    be given a server name as a parameter. Public domain.

rrd-archive.pl Steve Shipway
   This is a script to run nightly, to generate the archived .rrd files
   used by routers.cgi to do historical graphs.  GPL

mrtg-nrpe.sh Steve Shipway
    A wrapper to allow you to collect data in MRTG format from the Nagios
    remote agent, nrpe.  Unix shellscript, Public domain.

mrtg-pnsclient.pl Steve Shipway
    A perl script to allow you to collect data in MRTG format from the
    Nagios/NetSaint remote agent, pNSclient.  This is a great way to collect
    data remotely from a Windows Perfmon counter.

vmware_monitor.pl Steve Shipway
    A perl script to dynamically retrieve stats from a VMWare server, and 
    create .rrd and .cfg files appropriately.

dashboard Steve Shipway
    Some CGI scripts to work with the SLickboard Flash tool to display
    MRTG data as a dashobard gauge, graph, or bar chart.

rrdcached
    Information on how to make Routers2 and MRTG work with the rrdcached 
    caching daemon for rrdtool.

checkagent Steve Shipway
    A tool to check a remote host for the nsclient, nrpe or snmp agents

check_ucd Steve Shipway
    An MRTG/Nagios plugin to let you run a Nagios plugin via the UCD SNMP 
	daemon, and query the output

